docs/enums/severity.md, before:

# Severity

_File:_ [_`severity.enum.ts`_](../../src/lib/enums/severity.enum.ts)

### Overview

The `Severity` enum, part of the `error-enhanced` library, provides a standardized way to classify the impact level of errors. This allows for prioritized error handling and more effective debugging.

### Features

* **Error Impact Classification**: Enables errors to be sorted according to their impact level on system operations.

### Usage Example

```typescript
const severity = Severity.HIGH;
```

### Enum Members

| Key        | Description                                                                              |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `LOW`      | Low-impact errors that generally don't affect system functionality.                      |
| `MEDIUM`   | Moderate-impact errors that may affect some minor functionalities.                       |
| `HIGH`     | High-impact errors affecting critical functionalities but not halting the entire system. |
| `CRITICAL` | Critical-impact errors that demand immediate attention and may cause system outages.     |

***

Commit message:

refactor(Source): Several changes
Working in documentation (WIP)

Created CommandExecutor in
ApplicationState to reduce ApplicationState dependency on external
libraries and centralize maintenance in a proper file

File
reorganization

docs/enums/severity.md, after:

# Overview

The `Severity` enum, part of the `error-enhanced` library, is designed to offer a standardized approach to categorizing the impact level of errors within a system. By doing so, it facilitates more effective error handling and debugging.

## Features

### Error Impact Classification

- Allows for sorting errors based on their impact level on system operations, enabling a more focused approach to troubleshooting.
  
### Versatility

- Since it's an enum, it's straightforward to extend or adapt to specific project needs, making it both reusable and maintainable.

### Type-Safety

- Written in TypeScript, it provides type-checking advantages, ensuring that the impact level is one of the predefined categories.

## Example Usage

```typescript
const sev = Severity.HIGH;
if (sev === Severity.CRITICAL) {
  // Trigger emergency alert
} else if (sev === Severity.HIGH) {
  // Log and notify admin
} else {
  // Handle less severe cases
}
```

## Extending and Customization

Since the enum is written in TypeScript, extending it or customizing it for specific use-cases is straightforward. For example, you could add a `NONE` member to indicate the absence of an error.
